---
layout: post
title: TED - What Makes Us Feel Good About Work
categories: abc
tags: Speaking
author: getAbstract
---

*Dan Ariely*

## Take-Aways

* The assumption that people work only for a paycheck is false. In fact, “meaning, creation, challenges, ownership, identity and pride” are great motivators.
* Believing that their work has purpose, no matter how small, energizes people, whereas a perception of futility saps their commitment and productivity.
* Thus, when canceling a project, savvy CEOs will strive to find other ways to use or acknowledge a team’s accumulated work and input.
* Receiving even brief acknowledgement helps people stay motivated. Conversely, ignoring someone’s work is nearly as demotivating as destroying it.
* Being challenged increases worker satisfaction and sense of ownership.

## Review

In this enlightening TED Talk, behavioral economist Dan Ariely shares his experiments and findings about what motivates today’s workers. Merely issuing a paycheck won’t keep people energized, explains Ariely. getAbstract considers this a lecture that will motivate business leaders and employees alike.

## Summary

The assumption that people work only for a paycheck is inaccurate. . Consider why some individuals subject themselves to the rigor and pain of mountain climbing. Although the ascent is often miserable, they find meaning in the challenge and eventual accomplishment. That’s why one professional felt dejected when a demanding project was canceled at the last minute. His long labors felt fruitless.

Researchers devised an to study the importance of meaning in work. In the first variation, the “meaningful condition,” they offered participants $3.00 to build a Lego structure. After subjects finished building, testers placed the structure under the table and explained that it would be disassembled. They then offered less pay for a second structure. They continually lowered the payout per structure until participants declined because the offer was no longer worthwhile to them. The next variation tested the “Sisyphic condition,” named after Sisyphus, who was doomed to fruitless toil. These subjects received the same decreasing payouts, but testers disassembled the structures visibly and
immediately before reoffering them to the participants. People completed more projects in the first variation though the process felt only slightly less futile than in the second. What’s more, in a third variation where subjects heard a description of the first two experiments, they accurately predicted that meaning would be important, though they underestimated the degree.

If people feel their work is futile, it saps their commitment and productivity. Thus, when canceling a project, CEOs who understand the “essence of meaning” will strive to find other ways to use or acknowledge a team’s work and input. An supports this idea. Researchers asked three groups of subjects to find pairs of identical letters among random letter groupings on paper. Of the three groups, only one received brief acknowledgement for their work, and this group worked the longest. The group whose work was ignored performed almost as poorly as the group whose work was directly shredded.

Furniture store IKEA caters to this trait by requiring self-assembly of its wares. Similarly, in a study where participants constructed origami, they found their creations more valuable and attractive than outside observers did – and the effect increased with difficulty. Therefore, companies that want a happier, more productive workforce must stop viewing paychecks as the sole motivator and incorporate “meaning, creation, challenges, ownership, identity and pride.”

## About the Speaker

Dan Ariely is an author and behavioral economics professor at Duke University.

## Quotes

> “If you think about mountain climbing as an example, it suggests all kinds of things. It suggests that we care about reaching the end, a peak. It suggests that we care about the fight, about the challenge.”

> “Ignoring the performance of people is almost as bad as shredding their effort in front of their eyes.”

> “By simply looking at something that somebdoy has done...that seems to be quite sufficienct to dramatically improve people’s motivations.”

> “The good news is that adding motivation doesn’t seem to be so difficult. The bad news is htat eliminating motivations seems to be incredibly easy, and if we don’t think about it carefully, we might overdo it.”
