---
layout: post
title: My favorite movie star
description: English Learning
categories: abc
tags: Movie
author: Mason
---

Hi, friends. My name is star. I am very happy to have this opportunity to make a presentation in English. Today I would like to recommend a super star to you. I am a big fan of Nicolas. I will introduce him and then show some good movie starring him.
Mrs. Coppola was a winner, received Oscar, Golden Globe and Actors Guild Award for the performance as an alcoholic Hollywood writer.
Won 3 awards by only once starring. What is this movie? And another question is who is he or she? Who can give me the answer?
The answer comes up. He is known professionally as Nicolas Cage.
Cage is an American actor, director and producer. He has been married three times. His first wife was an actress and his second marriage was to singer Lisa, the daughter of Elvis Presley. As we known, Elvis was the king of Rock n Roll, and Cage is an Elvis fan, it is very funny. Cage's third and current wife Alice is a former waitress.
Very well-known person is his Uncle Francis Ford Coppola, who was the director of "God father". Looking at the tree, Cage was growing up in a family, where there are lots of artists in.
Here are films starring Cage. They were very popular and made international box office success. Cage came to the attention of wider audiences with these mainstream films.
Now let's go through them very quickly. "The Rock" told a story about counterstrike fight with a rouge group of military men. You can see how does a chemist break down the threat of gas attack against San Francisco. "Face Off" told that an FBI agent beat his sworn enemy, a powerful criminal. The key point is they exchanged the physical appearances of each other. At this time, how will you do if you were that FBI agent?
Here I highly recommend "City of angels", which is a 1998 romantic drama film. It told a story about love instead of ghost. Most of us, whether young or old, whether single or married, will be impressed by the plot. When the female lead died in the end, you will be very sad. Don't be so sad, let's go to the world war 2, to the island under fire from "WindTalkers".
Now comes to the newer film. "National treasure" is an adventure film: a historian searching for a lost treasure. The last recommendation is "Ghost Rider", one of my favorite film. "I'm the only one who can walk in both worlds. I'm ghost rider." It's very cool. Their sequels were released in followed years, with Cage reprising his roles.
That's all. Now I am waiting for the new movie starring Nicolas Cage. Thanks.
