---
layout: post
title: Extracts
categories: abc
tags: reading
author: Mason
---

# Extracts from Fortune China

[Fortune China](www.fortunechina.com)

## Insight

> Don't stand still, take risks and take on new responsibilities and opportunities. - Cathy Engelbert

> The only limit to our realization of tomorrow will be our doubts of today. - Franklin D. Roosevelt

> You can avoid reality, but you cannot avoid the consequences of avoiding reality. - Ayn Rand

> Never sacrifice family time for your business. You can work as many hours as you want in business, but you can't earn back the time lost with your spouse and kids. - Frank Crail

> Whatever you can do, or dream you can, begin it; boldness has genius, power and magic in it. - Johann Wolfgang von Goethe

> Success requires curiosity and courage, instinct, and a taste for the jugular. It requires you to look beyond simple answers and impulsive consumer rejection. - Michael Silverstein

> Initiative is to success what a lighted match is to a candle. - Orlando A. Battista

> The only security is courage. - Francois De La Rochefoucauld

> Think like a man of action, act like a man of thought. - Henri Bergson

> Figuring out how to appreciate your unique offering and believing in yourself is so important to unlocking your potential. - Debbie Sterling

> Failure is essential to turn good ideas into truly fantastic ones. - Tal Schwartz

## Business

> There has to be something that is emotionally anchored, deep-rooted and which will drive that founder through their most difficult days.  - Eileen Burbidge

> Don't be afraid to look to new advisors as your business grows. - Maria Contreras-Sweet

> If you really want work/life balance over a career, going all in as much as possible early may be the smartest thing you can do. - Clara Shih

> Leisure is the mother of philosophy. - Thomas Hobbes

> News is the first rough draft of history. - Philip L. Graham

> Encourage collaboration wherever possible - I find it always leads to better outcomes for my team and my stakeholders. - Sandi Peterson

> We want to follow human leaders, even if a computer could say all the right words, which is not an implausible prospect. - Geoff Colvin

> You can't put your head in the sand and think that you can take advantage of your team. You'll never win. - Mark Newman

> It is better to remain silent and be thought a fool than to open your mouth and relieve them of all doubt. - Abraham Lincoln

> To be able to fill leisure intelligently is the last product of civilization. - Bertrand Russell

> Anyone can have an opinion, but it is data and facts that carry the most weight. - Scoot Trezise

> You have to always keep boiling it down to what's really most important in terms of really moving this business forward - Mark Parker

## Words and phrases

**day-to-day** (daily): My job is sometimes quite exciting, but most of my day-to-day activities are rather boring.

**posthaste** (with great speed; as quickly as possible): In the event of an emergency, we need to notify the authorities posthaste.

**spillover** (consequences; often negative effects from unexpected sources): The spillover from the recent decrease in consumer spending will be felt in many parts of the national economy.

**commonweal** (prosperity, happiness, and good living conditions for people in general; the welfare of the community): Good government seeks to improve the commonweal.

**ineffable** (unspeakable, incapable of being expressed through words): The travels were charmed by the ineffable beauty of the mountain lake at dawn.

**inevitable** (certain to happen; unavoidable; predictable): Poor health was the inevitable result of his lack of exercise, excessive smoking, and bad eating habits.

**spew** (to flow out with great force): A great river of lava began to spew from the volcano's crater with a deep, trembling roar.

**by fits and starts** (to proceed intermittently; to move forward without consistent, regular progress) Since he was quite busy as a high school teacher and the father of two young children, the novelist wrote his first book by fits and starts.

**gory details** (unpleasant, sickening descriptions; usually involving serious, bloody injuries) I turned off the raid because I don't want to hear all the gory details about today's terrible railroad accident.

**in a pinch** (describing something which will not be optimal, but which will be satisfactory if other better alternatives are unavailable) I prefer to drive my car when I visit my parents in their village, but in a pinch I can take a bus.

**in cold storage** (describing something that is being postponed; in state of inaction, usually temporary) The clever engineers in our new company are keeping their ideas for an exciting new project in cold storage until we have more money with which to develop it.

**quick as a wink** (very quickly) Every day at closing time, my coworkers leave our store quick as a wink.

**tall tales** (imaginative, and highly exaggerated stories): As a child I loved listening to the tall tales my grandfather told me about his adventures traveling around the world as a sailor.

**to cut it out** (an order to stop doing what you are doing): My son was teasing his sister all morning, and when she started crying, I told him to cut it out.

**aftermath** (the consequences occurring in a period of time after something else has occurred, particularly after a disaster): In the aftermath of the terrible series of huge earthquakes, many people died due to lack of available food, water, and medical supplies.

**boom-and-bust** (describing anything characterized by an extreme fluctuation between periods of prosperity and poverty): The boom-and-bust economy of the oil-rich region depended on the price of oil on the global market.

**line-up** (a row of things or people arranged in a particular sequence): The company has an impressive product line-up scheduled for introduction next year.

**clear as mud** (describing something obscure; impossible to understand; not clear at all): The complicated directions my friend gave me to the location of his company were as clear as mud.

**in fine fettle** (in good health; in a good emotional condition): My elderly father was sick last month, but he has recovered completely and now he's in fine fettle again.

**on the heels of something** (describing something that occurs immediately after something else): On the heels of my departure from home this morning it began to snow quite heavily, delaying all traffic.

**the staff of life** (a basic, necessary food, usually the most important dietary staple in a culture): Rice is the staff of life for most people in Asia.

**to clean house** (to eliminate corruption, incompetence, or inefficiency in an organization): Our new president announced he was going to clean house in our company starting immediately, and several of our lazier employees began to worry about keeping their jobs.

**onerous** (describing something that causes significant, troublesome and unpleasant obligations; burdensome): Every year I dread the onerous task of preparing my taxes.

**pointless** (describing something that lacks purpose or meaning; futile): My stubborn business partners insist no long, pointless arguments about even the smallest details of our business, a practice which wastes a lot of time.

**superfluous** (unnecessary; exceeding what is needed or desirable; serving no important purpose): The airplane we will take for our journey over the mountains is filled with cargo and passengers, so we cannot take any superfluous baggage.

**unwarranted** (not based on a foundation of fact; unnecessary, lacking real authority): I have known and trusted our accountant for many years, so I believe your suspicions of his dishonesty are quite unwarranted.

**believe it or not** (expression of surprise about something happening in spite of seeming unlikely or impossible): My young son can't stand the sight of blood, but, believe it or not, he wants to study medicine and become a doctor.

**fair-weather friend** (*a person who is friendly only in good situations, but who cannot be relied upon in times of trouble or misfortune*): My office coworker is a fair-weather friend who will not support me in any disagreement with our boss.

**to be right up one's alley** (IDIOM *highly appropriate for one's skills, interests, and experience*): My articulate and energetic sister loves meeting new people and charming them, so a sales job should be right up her alley.

**to put something on the back burner** (IDIOM *to delay something by making it a low priority*): I was disappointed when our management team decided to put my favorite project on the back burner, because I knew it would be a full year before they reconsidered their decision.

**apposite** (Exceptionally appropriate): Our oldest committee member says little at meetings, but his comments are always apposite, and we listen to them with care.

**fulminate** (to express a vehement denunciation or an explosive verbal attack): When he discovered that his former business partner had stolen some of our company secrets, and several of our customers, our president fulminated for hours.

**incisive** (describing ideas, comments or actions that are clear, quick and forceful): In a crisis, the effective manager gives incisive instructions to her staff, so everyone correctly understands what to do immediately.

**laughquake** (a fit of uncontrolled laughter): My little daughter's unexpected joke threw our whole family into a two-minute laughquake.

**a sight for sore eyes** (someone who it is a great relief or joy to see): Once when I was stranded late one rainy night in a strange part of town I called my brother for help, and when I saw him arrive in his car, he was really a sight for sore eyes.

**laundry list** (a long, random list of items, minor duties, or activities): When I need to travel to a foreign country, I always have a laundry list of various tasks that must be done first.

**on the wrong scent** (on a false, misleading trail while searching for something or someone): The clever thief evaded capture by putting the police on the wrong scent.

**to be young at heart** (to have a youthful, enthusiastic attitude, despite being old): My elderly neighbor is a great-grandmother, but she's quite young at heart, and she enjoys travel, lively parties, and conversations with bright young people.

**to chance it** (to try doing something unlikely to succeed in the hope that you will be lucky; to take a risk): Although it is supposed to rain this afternoon, we really want to go the park, so we are going to chance it.
